<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" id="sources">
<head>
<meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=UTF-8" />
<link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/" />
<meta name="DC.identifier" content="WINHR:Soldiers data sources" />
<meta name="DC.date" content="2022-03-18" />
<title>Sources</title>
</head>
<body>
<h1>Sources</h1>
<p>We create a list of Soldiers XML person entries from some source, and we give that list a source label (see below). 
If we can successfully identify a person entry from such a list, then we have a database Soldier ID (SID) associated with a source. 
Doing this for all available sources builds a map of SID to Source. 
This map lets us find all the source entries that relate to a specific soldier. The source-specific <em>notes</em> in these entries can
be collated to pull together biographical data.
</p>
<h2>General</h2>
<dl>
<dt>CWGC</dt>
<dd>Commonwealth War Graves Commission</dd>
<dt>IWM</dt>
<dd>Imperial War Museum, Lives of the First World War</dd>
<dt>SWB</dt>
<dd>Silver War Badge</dd>
<dt>WOCL</dt>
<dd>War Office Casualties List</dd>
</dl>

<h2>Museum</h2>
<dl>
<dt>CASLDGR</dt>
<dd>Regimental Casualty Ledger</dd>
<dt>PROFILE</dt>
<dd>Biographical research by the museum</dd>
<dt>TIGERTALK</dt>
<dd>Tiger Talk - The Royal Hampshire Associations' Newsletter</dd>
<dt>VOLCC</dt>
<dd>Volunteer research into the Portsmouth "Pals" Battalions</dd>
<dt>VOLRR</dt>
<dd>Volunteer research into the 1st Battalion "Old Contemptibles"</dd>
</dl>

<p>
There are 3 attributes on the Soldiers XML <em>note</em> element that relate to source:
<dl>
<dt>sourceref</dt><dd>A formal source reference or identifier that should be used when the source is a particular historical document.</dd>
<dt>source</dt><dd>A name for the source. </dd>
<dt>type</dt><dd>The type of the source material. This offers a way of grouping similar records from different resources together. For example, "medals" or "medical".</dd>
</dl>
</p>

<p>
Ideally, we would like to capture enough information in a Soldiers XML <em>note</em> element to allow it to be traced back to a specific historical document.
The <em>sourceref</em> attribute allows this provided that it is available and can be sensibly de-referenced. The <em>source</em> attribute should give the
context to uniquely identify the referenced document.
</p>

<p>
It may be that links to historical records are lost because the source to the creator of the Soldiers XML data is some intermediary that hasn't kept a detailed record of
its own sources. The intermediary might be able to generate its own reference if it maintains a database of the records it generates, but this isn't to be expected. Instead,
we will have a named source for a note, but without a source reference. 
</p>

</body>
</html>